# Sprint 46 Retrospective - Raw Notes

**Date:** Tuesday, October 15, 2025
**Time:** 3:30 PM - 5:00 PM ET
**Facilitator:** You (Scrum Master)
**Attendees:** Raj, Lisa, Marcus, Priya (remote), James, Emma, David

---

## Setup

Using sticky notes on Miro board. Three columns: What Went Well, What Didn't Go Well, Ideas for Improvement.

Everyone has 5 minutes to add sticky notes, then we'll discuss.

---

## Raw Notes (as captured)

### What Went Well

**Lisa:** "Finally shipped the notification system. Big milestone."

**Lisa:** "Pairing with Marcus went well, he's learning fast"

**James:** "Testing flow was smoother - fewer last minute bugs this sprint"

**Marcus:** "The pairing sessions really helped me understand the codebase better"

**Emma:** "I feel like I'm getting faster at writing test cases"

**Raj:** "Stakeholders were happy with the demo, Richard specifically called out the notification work"

**Priya:** "The async standup format worked well for me this sprint - thanks for implementing that"

**David:** "Actually got designs done before sprint started for once!"

**James:** "Emma is asking great questions - helps me think through edge cases"

---

### What Didn't Go Well

**Lisa:** "Still too many meetings. I'm in meetings 60% of my day some days. Hard to get into flow."

**Lisa:** "Sprint planning took almost 3 hours last time. We said we'd timebox to 2."

**Marcus:** "I still feel nervous speaking up when there's a disagreement. Not sure my opinion matters."

**James:** "Same technical debt keeps biting us. The search indexing code is a mess and we keep having to work around it."

**James:** "We said we'd dedicate 10% to tech debt 3 sprints ago. Still hasn't happened."

**Emma:** "I don't always understand why priorities change mid-sprint. Would be helpful to know the reasoning."

**David:** "I'm still getting pulled to other teams. Had 3 conflicts this sprint alone."

**David:** "Feel bad that my availability keeps blocking you all"

**Priya:** "I missed the decision about the API design - it was discussed in slack during my night and by morning it was finalized. Felt left out."

**Priya:** "Some days I feel disconnected from the team. The timezone thing is hard."

**Raj:** "I struggle to push back on stakeholder requests. Richard asked for 'one small thing' that turned into 5 points."

**Raj:** "Hard to say no when it's coming from the CKO"

---

### Ideas for Improvement

**Lisa:** "Focus Fridays - no meetings. We talked about this before but never did it."

**Lisa:** "Can we actually enforce the 2-hour timebox for planning?"

**Marcus:** "Maybe we could do anonymous voting on controversial topics? Would help people like me share opinions."

**James:** "Formally allocate 10% of every sprint to tech debt. Put it in the sprint as a story."

**James:** "Start tracking escaped bugs - would help make the case for quality investment"

**Emma:** "When priorities change, a quick 'here's why' would help me understand"

**David:** "Can someone escalate the resource sharing issue? I've been asking my manager but nothing changes."

**David:** "Maybe we plan design work 1 sprint ahead? Give me more lead time?"

**Priya:** "Can we use an async decision log? Important decisions get documented for those not in the room."

**Priya:** "Maybe monthly virtual coffee chats? Would help me feel more connected."

**Raj:** "Maybe you (SM) could help me practice saying no? Like roleplay or something?"

---

## Discussion Notes (free-form)

[3:50 PM]

Started discussing Focus Fridays. Lisa very passionate about this. Raj concerned stakeholders might need us on Fridays. James said "they can wait until Monday."

Priya mentioned that Fridays are actually Saturdays for her so she wouldn't benefit anyway.

Lisa clarified - it's about protecting flow time, not about specific day. Could we do "No Meeting Wednesdays" instead? That would include Priya's Thursday which is better for her.

Marcus nodded but didn't say anything. I asked him directly if he had thoughts. He said "I agree with whatever the team decides." Classic Marcus avoidance.

David had to drop at 4:15 PM - conflict with Platform team retro. He apologized.

[4:20 PM]

James is frustrated about tech debt. This is the 4th sprint he's brought it up. He showed a chart - 3 bugs this sprint came from the same messy code. "We keep putting bandaids on bandaids."

Lisa agreed technically but said "the business doesn't care about tech debt until it breaks."

I suggested we quantify the cost - how much time do we spend on workarounds? James said he'd track it next sprint.

[4:35 PM]

Priya shared more about feeling left out. This was hard for her - you could see the emotion. She said "I don't want to be the difficult one but sometimes I feel like an afterthought."

Lisa immediately said "That's not true, we value you!" Good intention but kind of dismissive.

I asked Priya what would help specifically. She said the async decision log would be huge. Also, if someone could post key decisions in #velocity-squad-standups when they happen.

Emma suggested we could tag Priya explicitly when decisions are being made. Priya liked that.

Marcus said quietly "I relate to feeling like my voice doesn't matter." First real thing he's said in retro. Important moment.

[4:50 PM]

Raj opened up about the stakeholder pressure. Richard (CKO) is intimidating. Raj feels like he can't say no to him.

I offered to help coach him on stakeholder management. He seemed relieved.

Lisa said "Raj, we can't keep adding things mid-sprint. It hurts the team." Raj got a bit defensive: "I know, but what am I supposed to do? He's the CKO."

I suggested we practice some scenarios - I'll play Richard, Raj practices saying no. He agreed to try it.

[5:00 PM - Overtime]

Ran 5 minutes over (oops).

Quick voting on actions:

1. **Focus Day (Wed or Fri)** - 5 votes
2. **10% tech debt allocation** - 4 votes
3. **Async decision log** - 4 votes
4. **Timebox planning to 2 hours** - 3 votes
5. **Escalate design resource issue** - 3 votes

---

## Action Items (as captured)

- [ ] Focus day - propose to Jennifer for approval (owner: SM)
- [ ] Tech debt - James to track time spent on workarounds
- [ ] Async decision log - Priya to create template
- [ ] Planning timebox - SM to enforce strictly
- [ ] Design escalation - SM to draft email to Jennifer
- [ ] Stakeholder coaching - SM to schedule roleplay session with Raj
- [ ] Priya tagging - everyone to tag Priya on decisions in Slack

---

## My Notes (SM)

This was a heavier retro. Some real emotions came out.

Key themes I'm seeing:
1. **Focus/flow protection** - Lisa, meetings. Marcus, quiet time to think.
2. **Inclusion** - Priya explicit, Marcus implicit. Both feel unheard.
3. **Organizational issues** - David's capacity, tech debt approval, stakeholder pressure on Raj
4. **Recurring items** - Focus day and tech debt have been raised multiple sprints. Need to actually make progress.

I took on too many action items myself. Need to distribute better.

The Marcus moment was important. He identifies with Priya's feeling of not mattering. I should follow up 1:1.

David leaving early is a symptom of the problem. He's overcommitted.

Raj needs more support than I've been giving him. Stakeholder management coaching is real.

Priya almost cried. The timezone thing is harder on her than she shows normally.

---

## Follow-up Needed

- [ ] 1:1 with Marcus about speaking up
- [ ] 1:1 with Priya about inclusion
- [ ] Draft escalation email for David's capacity
- [ ] Prepare stakeholder roleplay for Raj
- [ ] Write up Focus Day proposal for Jennifer
- [ ] Review - did we complete last sprint's actions? (Spoiler: mostly no)

---

**End of retro notes**
